[MUSIC PLAYING]
JAKE: We are in the
month of Christmas.
But that is also the
last month of 2017.
So we're thinking towards
2018 and the things that
are going to be landing
in browsers or things
we'll be thinking
about in that year.
So I want you to
spend the next two
minutes introducing a subject.
You can quiz me about it.
And we'll see if we can come
up with something that we can
actually publish on YouTube.
All right.
Here we go.
Two minutes.
I want to talk about
weightless CSS.
SURMA: Weightless?
JAKE: That is one
of the words I said.
The other one is CSS.
SURMA: So CSS without weight.
JAKE: Yes.
That is a good reversal
of what I said.
SURMA: What is weight?
JAKE: OK.
So when you write A CSS
selector, it has specificity.
SURMA: That is correct.
JAKE: Yes.
Which I could call
weight if I didn't
want to risk trying to
pronounce specificity again.
SURMA: Oh.
So you mean
specificity-less CSS?
JAKE: Specificity-less
CSS is exactly--
can you see now why I
went for weightless CSS?
So this is a proposal that
was agreed on in TPAC in 2017.
And [INAUDIBLE] was
telling me about it.
And the idea was that-- they
haven't settled on a name yet,
but it would be
something like is,
in the same way
that you would use--
SURMA: Oh, like colon
is, and then a function.
JAKE: Yes.
Exactly that.
And inside you could put
like a simple selector,
like dot [INAUDIBLE].
SURMA: So that would make
a selector make match
without increasing
its specificity.
JAKE: Exactly that.
So you'd be able to
use all of the stuff
that you can use outside
is, or whatever it's called,
but it would have
like zero specificity.
SURMA: Why?
JAKE: Because this is the
CSS working group's attempt
to meet people halfway that
don't enjoy the cascade so
much.
SURMA: Oh, I see.
SPEAKER 1: So one of the
things that complaints--
or one of the reasons
they've seen people go to CSS
and JavaScript is
that this whole--
SURMA: Just attach it
to the element directly.
JAKE: Exactly.
Because then the
model's a lot simpler.
So it's, can they bring
that to regular style sheets
as an option where just things
will be done sequentially?
SURMA: Can I use child
selectors in the is thing?
JAKE: I don't think so.
SURMA: Because that was one
the long standing things
that people wanted to,
that if you contain
a thing of that type, then
style me the other way around,
or something.
JAKE: No.
It would just be simple
selectors but no specificity.
SURMA: We're out of time.
It's a template
proposal from Apple.
JAKE: Oh, Apple
template proposal.
SURMA: The Apple
JAKE: So like what
have they proposed?